Added Overview of RHOBS, Observatorium, Telemeter and MST (#21)
rhobs/handbook: content/Projects/Observability/RHOBS/README.md

# Red Hat Observability Service

*Previous Documents:*

* [Initial Design for RHOBS (Internal Content)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cSz_ZbS35mk8Op92xhB9ijW1ivOtJuD1uAzPiBdSUqs/edit)
* [Initial FAQ (Internal Content)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_xnJBS3v7n4m229L3tqCqBXzZy55yu6dxCJY-vh_Egs/edit)

## What

> Red Hat Observability Service (RHOBS) is a managed, centralized, multi-tenancy, scalable backend for the observability data. Functionally it is an [Observatorium](../observatorium.md) as A Service (SaaS) installation. RHOBS is meant to allowing ingesting, storing and using (visualisations, import, alerting, correlation) observability signals like metrics, logging and tracing is using well established APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Red Hat Observability Service (RHOBS) is a managed, centralized, multi-tenant, scalable backend for the observability data. Functionally it is an [Observatorium](../observatorium.md) as A Service (SaaS) installation. RHOBS is meant to allowing ingesting, storing and using (visualisations, import, alerting, correlation) observability signals like metrics, logging and tracing is using well established APIs.
```

Reviewer: `Observatorium](../observatorium.md) as A Service (SaaS)` does not abbreviate to SaaS :p

> Red Hat Observability Service (RHOBS) is a managed, centralized, multi-tenancy, scalable backend for the observability data. Functionally it is an [Observatorium](../observatorium.md) as A Service (SaaS) installation. RHOBS is meant to allowing ingesting, storing and using (visualisations, import, alerting, correlation) observability signals like metrics, logging and tracing is using well established APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Red Hat Observability Service (RHOBS) is a managed, centralized, multi-tenancy, scalable backend for the observability data. Functionally it is an [Observatorium](../observatorium.md) as A Service (SaaS) installation. RHOBS is meant to allowing ingesting, storing and using (visualisations, import, alerting, correlation) observability signals like metrics, logging and tracing, through well established APIs.
```

> This document outlines the basic overview of the RHOBS service. If you want to learn about RHOBS architecture, look for [Observatorium](https://observatorium.io) default deployment and it's design.

Reviewer: "Outlining an overview of X" is pretty abstract, i think we should either "provide an overview of X" or "outline X"

> This document outlines the basic overview of the RHOBS service. If you want to learn about RHOBS architecture, look for [Observatorium](https://observatorium.io) default deployment and it's design.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document outlines the basic overview of the RHOBS service. If you want to learn about RHOBS architecture, look for [Observatorium](https://observatorium.io) default deployment and its design.
```

### Background

With the amount of managed Openshift clusters, for Red Hat’s own use as well as for customers, there is a strong need to improve the observability of those clusters and of their workloads to the multi-cluster level. Moreover, with the “clusters as cattle” concept, more automation and complexity there is a strong need for a uniform service gathering observability data including metrics, logs, traces, etc into a remote, centralized location for multi-cluster aggregation and long term storage.

It’s worth noting that there is also a significant benefit to collecting and using multiple signals within one system:
* Correlating signals and creating a smooth and richer debugging UX.

> * Sharing common functionality, like rate limiting, retries, auth, etc which allows consistent integration and management experience for users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sharing common functionality, like rate limiting, retries, auth, etc, which allows a consistent integration and management experience for users.
```

> * Sharing common functionality, like rate limiting, retries, auth, etc which allows consistent integration and management experience for users

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Sharing common functionality like rate limiting, retries, auth, etc., which allows consistent a integration and management experience for users.
```

> The Openshift Monitoring Team began preparing for this shift in 2018 with the [Telemeter](telemeter.md) Service. In particular, while creating the second version of the Telemeter Service, we put effort into developing and contributing to open source systems and integration to design the [“Observatorium”](../observatorium.md): a multi-signal, multi-tenant system capable that can be operated easily and cheaply as a SaaS either by Red Hat or on-premise. After extednding scope of the RHOBS, Telemeter become the first "tenant" of the Red Hat Observability Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Openshift Monitoring Team began preparing for this shift in 2018 with the [Telemeter](telemeter.md) Service. In particular, while creating the second version of the Telemeter Service, we put effort into developing and contributing to open source systems and integration to design [“Observatorium”](../observatorium.md): a multi-signal, multi-tenant system that can be operated easily and cheaply as a SaaS either by Red Hat or on-premise. After extending the scope of the RHOBS, Telemeter become the first "tenant" of the RHOBS.
```

> The Openshift Monitoring Team began preparing for this shift in 2018 with the [Telemeter](telemeter.md) Service. In particular, while creating the second version of the Telemeter Service, we put effort into developing and contributing to open source systems and integration to design the [“Observatorium”](../observatorium.md): a multi-signal, multi-tenant system capable that can be operated easily and cheaply as a SaaS either by Red Hat or on-premise. After extednding scope of the RHOBS, Telemeter become the first "tenant" of the Red Hat Observability Service.

Reviewer 2: s/as a SaaS/as a service/

> In Summer 2020, the Monitoring Team together with the Openshift Logging Team added a logging signal to the [“Observatorium”](../observatorium.md) and started to manage it for internal team as the Red Hat Observability Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Summer 2020, the Monitoring Team together with the OpenShift Logging Team added a logging signal to [“Observatorium”](../observatorium.md) and started to manage it for internal teams as the Red Hat Observability Service.
```

> In Summer 2020, the Monitoring Team together with the Openshift Logging Team added a logging signal to the [“Observatorium”](../observatorium.md) and started to manage it for internal team as the Red Hat Observability Service.

Reviewer: I think we need to be consistent in our usage of either the abbreviation or the full name
```suggestion
In Summer 2020, the Monitoring Team together with the Openshift Logging Team added a logging signal to the [“Observatorium”](../observatorium.md) and started to manage it for internal team as the RHOBS.
```

### Status

> RHOBS is managed on production already offered to various internal teams with various extensions and expansions are coming in near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RHOBS is running in production and has already been offered to various internal teams, with more extensions and expansions coming in the near future.
```

> *There is currently no plan to offer RHOBS to external customers (yet).* However anyone is welcome to deploy and manage RHOBS-like-service on their own using [Observatorium](../observatorium.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*There is currently no plan to offer RHOBS to external customers (yet).* However anyone is welcome to deploy and manage an RHOBS-like-service on their own using [Observatorium](../observatorium.md).
```

Reviewer 2: s/ (yet)//

Usage (state as of 2021.07.01):

> The metric usage is visualised in following diagram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metric usage is visualised in the following diagram:
```

![RHOBS](../../../assets/rhobs.png)

RHOBS is functionally separated into two main usage categories:

* Since 2018 we run Telemeter tenant for metric signal (hard tenancy). See [telemeter](telemeter.md) for details.

> * Since 2021 we ingest metrics for chosen Manage Services under MST soft tenant deployment. See [MST](mst.md) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Since 2021 we ingest metrics for selected Managed Services as soft tenants in an independent deployment. See [MST](mst.md) for details.
```

Other signals:

> * Since 2020 we ingest logs for DPTP team (hard tenancy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Since 2020 we ingest logs for the DPTP team (hard tenancy).
```

Reviewer: How is this a hard tenant? Maybe it would be good to mention which Observatorium instance is ingesting these logs.

Author: I have no idea what is DPTP team ;p

### Owners

RHOBS was initially designed by `Monitoring Group` and its metric signal is managed and supported by `Monitoring` Group team (OpenShift organization) together with AppSRE team (Service Delivery organization).

Other signals are managed by others team (each together with AppSRE help):

> * Logging signal: Openshift Logging Team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Logging signal: OpenShift Logging Team
```

> * Tracing signal: Openshift Tracing Team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tracing signal: OpenShift Tracing Team
```

> Telemeter continues to be a critical service for us: it is operated jointly by AppSRE and the Observability Team (the Observability Team also performs on-call duties) and maintained on the client-side by the In-Cluster Monitoring Team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Telemeter continues to be a critical service for us. It is operated jointly by the AppSRE and Observability teams (the Observability Team also performs on-call duties). It is maintained on the client-side by the In-Cluster Monitoring Team.
```
